Okay, let's go ahead and get started.
Welcome to session 721,
Mobile Success Stories.
We have three great presenters for
you here today with great stories
to tell in the mobile space.
We have Jean-Philippe Fournier
from Bouygues Telecom.
We have Alec Hendry from MTV Europe.
And we have Pierre Barbau from Sprint.
So with that,
I would like to first introduce
Jean-Philippe Fournier.
And I will try and work the clicker.
So with that, I'll give this to you.
Okay.
Thank you.
Good afternoon.
I'm Jean-Philippe Fournier
working for the Department for
New Technologies at Bouygues Telecom.
For those who attended
the previous session,
I'll try not to be too repetitive on
some slides that my colleague presented.
A few words about Bouygues Telecom
for those who might not know.
We are a GSM French mobile carrier.
We have six million customers.
GSM GPRS network is available
nationwide in France.
So we achieved 99% population coverage.
And for those of you who travel
to Europe and have a GSM phone,
you might know what's
nationwide coverage.
The feeling of a nationwide coverage
is pretty different than here.
We launched iMode in 2002 and
we happen to be the largest
iMode carrier outside Japan.
With 700,000 iMode users,
that's a mark that we reached this week.
We are preparing an Edge network rollout.
I'll say a few words later on
in the presentation about it.
And we are not a public company,
we are a subsidiary of a group,
the Bouygues Group,
which is a unique combination of a telco,
a mobile carrier, and a media company.
In the Bouygues Group, you have TF1,
which is the largest TV channel
in France and Europe.
You have subsidiaries
of TF1 or Eurosport.
If you want to look at the Super Bowl,
if you're in Europe,
then you'll definitely
switch to Eurosport.
It's a Europe-wide sports channel.
We also operate satellite TV channels.
We have a satellite TV bouquet with
about 16 channels belonging to TF1
and many other media activities.
A few words about the
mobile market in France.
Two major players, Orange and SF4,
are competing with us.
SF4 is about to become
Vodafone later this year.
On the left side you'll see the
market share for voice users.
So you see that Orange is
the largest mobile courier in
France with about 50% market share.
SFR has 30% and both couriers
SFR and Orange began operations
in 1991 whereas we began in 1996.
That's why the difference mainly.
We have then about a 20%
market share for voice users.
On the right side of the slides
I presented the data only subscriptions.
What's interesting is that despite
the fact that we are the smallest
courier regarding data services
we have a pretty good market
share and very good penetration.
It's a fair competition between Orange,
SFR and us on these services.
One of the main reasons we could
achieve as a small courier to
play an equal game with R-Range
and SFR is that we rely on iMode,
which gives us possibilities we
could not expect to have on our own.
So a few words about iMode
is that it's been launched,
of course, in Japan by Docomo in 2000,
I guess, maybe not accurate,
but 2000 or 2001.
That was the first data services
offering that has been popular.
And during the time that
European couriers were
struggling with the web services,
Docomo was doing very,
very well in Japan.
And they have now tens of millions
of subscribers in Japan only.
So iMode services have expanded overseas.
They've been rolled out by nine couriers
around the world and outside Japan.
And more couriers are joining every year.
And all these couriers formed
a group called the Alliance.
Which aim is to specify and to
maybe adjust the iMode systems to
adapt it to their local markets.
iMode is based mainly on the clear
separation of the roles between
content providers and carriers.
The point we want to be clear on is
that we are not a content provider.
We don't want to provide our
customers our own content.
We can't do it.
It's not our job.
And iMOD relies on standard
technologies that we like:
HTML, email.
So no MMS,
no telecom originated standards.
A few words about the iMode ecosystem,
why iMode is pretty
well working in Europe.
The customer is of course
center of the place,
the central role.
And we as a courier, we
Allow the content providers to
distribute their contents to the
end users through our network.
That's just what we do.
We don't do any content creation.
We don't host any content
providers or we don't host any of
our own content on our servers.
It's really,
we are offering a pipe for people to web,
to browse iMode sites.
That's all.
But we are trying to do it our best.
One thing where we are pretty good at
and where we are trying to help our
content providers is that we have a
unique relationship to our customers.
Our customers get a bill from us, by us,
each month,
so they know who their carrier is
and at this point we have also a huge
Customer Care and
Customer Relationship Department.
So that's one of our strengths.
And we want to allow
the content providers,
big ones or small ones,
to benefit from this.
[Transcript missing]
The iMOD model is pretty clear.
We share the content providers
get 86% of the subscription fees.
So a typical subscription fee is about
between one and three euro a month.
So if you want to get weather
for your location in France,
then you would pay one euro a month
to a weather content provider.
So that's pretty fair.
And we pay back 86% of this one
euro to the content providers.
And we keep the money
for the packet traffic.
So the key for success of our
iMode services is that through
iMode we have the ability to
specify and to adjust handset
specifications to our local market.
That's something that our
competitors are beginning to do.
For example,
you see Vodafone is working more and more
closely with their handset providers,
which give them the
ability to do so as well,
to control the handsets,
control the features, and to specify,
for example,
the file formats they want to use.
It guarantees for the end users,
it guarantees a consistent
experience throughout,
across all the handsets
that they could buy from us.
So you get for example on each iMode
handset you have a hard key which is
always the same place on the handset
and you'll find it on any iMode handset.
So if I change my handset, if I upgrade,
I'll still find the same navigation menu,
always the same ergonomics.
So we want to keep it
simple for end users.
And most of them don't have PCs at home
so that's maybe their unique data device.
So we really want to make it a very
simple experience so that they can enter
the data world as easily as possible.
Thank you.
Something very important for
our content providers is that we
guarantee the content providers
that their content will look exactly
the same across all our handsets.
I was discussing this with Alec
from MTV right before the session.
If MTV gives us a picture,
then we guarantee them that the
same picture will look exactly the
same on our latest handsets and on
the handset that we launched two
years ago when we launched iMode.
So that's a burden that the content
providers don't have to take care of.
And they pretty much appreciate
the homogeneity of iMode handsets.
That, of course, reduces drastically the
content productivity.
It reduces the production costs for them
so they can concentrate on their job,
which is mainly produce content.
And that's building the
success for our data services.
One word about the content providers.
Copyright Control Management:
iMode has a very simple but very
efficient feature which allows a
content provider to protect its content.
And we ensure the content provider that
the content won't go out of the phone.
It's stuck.
As soon as you download a picture,
for example,
and the content provider protects it,
then you won't be able to take it
out through infrared or Bluetooth.
A list,
a non-exhaustive list of iMODE services.
What you'll find are pretty
interesting and practical information.
You'll find weather, you'll find news,
you'll find finance,
stock quotes for those interested in it.
You'll find real-time traffic
information for Paris.
For those who know Paris,
that might be very interesting
to have this information
next time you come to France.
There are more than 250 services
and there are more than 200 content
providers working with us on iMODE.
We offer also Java-based services.
We're using the slightly different
version of Java from Docomo,
which name is Doja,
but has almost the same
capabilities than Java.
[Transcript missing]
We've just launched video
services beginning of June.
Of course, it's MPEG-4 based.
That's why we are here working with
QuickTime and Apple because all the
iMode handsets that are supporting
videos are using the standard,
supporting the standard.
You can download,
it's a download service,
so you can download 100
kilobytes of video on our portal.
Clips are approximately 15 seconds long.
And you can then, oh that's video mail,
sorry.
Maybe I'll go through.
Yeah, video clip download.
So you can download clips that
are 100 kilobytes long and the
duration is approximately 15 seconds.
And the users pay for a subscription,
pays a subscription fee to be able to
download three or four or five clips each
month from the same content provider.
[Transcript missing]
In addition to the subscription,
the users pay traffic,
1 euro cent per kilobyte.
So, we've been trying to help our content
providers to make the best videos
for our video download service.
And we've been giving them guidelines,
tools to help them encode
efficiently their content
into our MPEG-4 file format.
And that's why we recommended
QuickTime Pro for all
our content providers.
Because we found it's a very simple
and easy to use tool that also
allows directly to set the content
protection feature supported by iMode.
Video mail.
Besides video download,
you can capture a movie on your phone and
send it through email as an attachment
to any compatible phone or to any
email address you want on the web.
On the other side,
the Mac user or the PC user just
needs to have QuickTime installed on
his desktop and can see your movies.
[Transcript missing]
The first network is GSM with
very limited data support.
It evolves to GPRS.
That's what we've deployed and now we
are There are two after GPRS deployment.
There are two alternatives You can
go either for a network upgrade and
go for edge or you can go for whole
completely new network that is UMTS
So you have two options,
Edge versus UMTS or 3G.
So to have a better throughput
than with the current GPRS network,
you have to deploy one
of these two networks.
UMTS networks offer very high capacity,
pretty high speeds, but there's a but.
They assume a huge upfront deployment
cost because it's a brand new network.
You have to deploy
your network from zero.
You can't just upgrade your radio sites.
You have to make new radio sites and you
have to build new hardware on top of it.
To give you an idea,
if we are to deploy a 3G
UMTS network in France,
we have to pay 6 billion euros,
6 billion.
A bit more than six
billion dollars for it.
That's exactly what our GSM,
the whole GSM network cost to us about
six years ago when we deployed it.
So that's something that's
still very money demanding.
The problem is with,
if you go today for a 3G deployment,
you have very few,
[Transcript missing]
That's something that might
make a huge difference in the
first years of UMTS deployment
between us and our competitors.
That's our strength.
So, of course, UMTS is an option for us,
but in a few years from now,
we expect to increase our revenues
first using the edge network,
and then we'll think again what
we'll be doing for a UMTS deployment.
A table where a few of
the main features of,
compared features of 3G, UMTS and Edge.
So the bandwidth is
For the first deployments of 3G is 128
kbps what you'll get in a radio cell.
It will evolve of course up to
384 kbps that might evolve in
the next month or next years.
But on the edge side you will
get 200 kbps from the first
day the edge is deployed.
The coverage, as I said,
for 3G is more focused on
metropolitan areas because of the
huge investment to deploy the network,
whereas Edge will be
available nationwide.
And the handsets,
that might still be an issue
for 3G carriers because
they're still pretty expensive.
They're new.
It's a brand new network,
brand new technologies.
So, as you know,
brand new technologies are
sometimes difficult to start with.
So, they're pretty expensive
this time as well.
Whereas for Edge,
only asks for a radio upgrade of
the handsets and you can use your
today's very stable GPRS handsets
and upgrade them to Edge.
If you're a handset
manufacturer of course.
Multimedia Services Evolutions:
What we will use Edge for is to
allow for longer video clips,
better quality.
You will be able to have larger pictures,
larger videos.
You will be able to go from QCIF to QVGA.
Video streaming is also an alternative
on which we are currently working.
And of course,
you might as well increase the quality
together with picture size and duration.
You'll be able to allow higher bit
rates for your video and codes.
An alternative we are also
looking at is MPEG-4 H264 support,
also called AVC,
something we are currently looking at to
reduce the bandwidth for a given quality.
And something that we see
coming also is stereo handsets.
You'll get a better audio but
also you'll have a two-channel
sound on the coming handsets.
So for us it requires more
network bandwidth to download
two channels instead of one.
So for example currently we play,
if you're using an AAC device, mono,
you are able to download 32
kbps encoded audio files.
But with stereo you have
the simplicity to double it.
The future?
Today we speak about download services.
We're speaking for tomorrow
about streaming services that
might allow you to see real-time
video coming to your phone.
But there's also another path to
follow which is broadcast networks
are coming to mobile handsets.
That's something that we will see
happening in the next two years.
There's a standard that's been
specified currently which name is DVBH,
Digital Video Broadcast for Handhelds.
And that's a possible candidate for
these mobile broadcast networks.
The point for us is we make
money using video download.
We make money using video streaming.
We make money using video streaming
on our networks because the packets
simply goes through our pipes,
our network.
The day that the broadcast network
will be on and you'll be able
to watch TV on your handsets,
it might change two things.
The first one is that our users might
not download the videos from our website.
But our iMode site does.
But rather watch it
directly on the TV channels.
And the other one is also since
customers will spend more time
watching TV on their phones,
revenues will, they will spend less time
using our iMode services.
So that's something today that
we see as a possible threat.
But we also see this as a
very exciting alternative.
And a very exciting way of
expanding business for us.
We just need to find new business models.
But we're sure we'll find some
interesting ways to use it.
A few words about what
we're doing with QuickTime.
So as I said,
QuickTime Pro has been recommended
for MPEG-4 content creation
because of its ease of use,
first of all.
It has a very large audience
as an MPEG-4 player.
If you receive a video mail sent from
an iMode handset on your PC or Mac,
it's always better if you have
QuickTime to be able to read it.
That's why it's a
player of choice for us.
It's an inexpensive encoder that
does a very good job compared to
some very more expensive encoders.
And of course, it's a free player.
Thank you, Apple.
And it has this nice feature
that our content providers love,
that is they can protect their
content using this MPEG-4 encoder.
We are also evaluating with time
streaming architecture because
streaming might be a service that we
could roll out on an edge network.
We found out it's a highly
interoperable solution.
For example,
we can stream videos in PIC4 format
on these small Nokia handsets.
It's not an Apple handset
and it's not a Nokia server,
so that's things that we just love.
Before this,
you had to buy a packet video
streaming server and a packet
video client on your handsets.
something that's not
always very easy to do.
It's a very reliable hardware platform.
I won't tell you too much about this,
but I'm pretty sure you agree.
And it's a telco-grade architecture.
What's next with QuickTime?
Of course,
we'd love to evaluate the first MPEG-4,
MPEG-264 and CADRs from QuickTime as
soon as they're on the market.
And something we could work
together on also is DVB-H digital
video broadcast is coming.
DVB-H is an IP-based broadcast network.
So the hardware you would use to
operate a DVB-H network is pretty
close to what you're using today to
stream video on a cellular network.
So QuickTime could be the
architecture we might use to
operate these kind of networks.
And also, I think,
Since TF1 is one of our sister
companies in the Bouygues Group,
they are very much focused
on TV and they are promoting
very heavily HDTV in France.
And their point is to go for MPEG-4
AVC or MPEG-264 for HDTV very soon.
And for them it's also very interesting
to have the same end-cutters,
the same tools ranging from
HD broadcasts down to mobile broadcasts.
So these are directions
we would love to go into,
to look into with our Apple fellows.
Okay, that's it.
Thank you.
Thank you, Jean-Philippe.
Next, we're going to invite Alec
Hendry to come up and speak.
Excuse me.
He will speak about his experience as
a content provider in the mobile space.
Thanks, it's great to be here today to
show you some of the services we're
offering in the UK for MTV Mobile.
We're doing quite a lot of
different stuff which I'm hoping
you'll find quite interesting.
I'm going to show you some of
the different services we've got,
give a quick overview of some
of the mobile technology,
but I think we've covered some of that
already so I'll try and skip through
that to get through the session.
Mobile usage, what people are doing
with mobile in the UK,
and then try and move on to some of
the more new technologies we're doing
with video production for 3G services.
So I'm the operations manager for
MTV UK in Ireland and I look after
the services we run on websites,
interactive TV and mobile phones.
In MTV Europe,
we've got a wide set of distribution
across the regions and we've got
multiple genre channels so we can
quite target specific audiences
with different tastes of music.
It's actually grown since last week
when we bought some new music stations.
But there's around 27 different
music feeds across Europe,
all originating from London,
and with different regions around
Europe contributing local feeds.
It's actually nine specific to the UK,
so we've got quite a big task
dealing with our music channels:
MTV Hits, MTV Two, MTV Bass, Dance, TMF,
VH1, VH1 Classic and the
newest of which is VH2.
And we're in just under 120
million households across Europe,
so we've got a really wide distribution.
So anything we do on
air with our promotions,
we can really target mobile users
by discussing our services on air.
I'm having to look at the screen
by the way because I've left
my glasses back in England and
I can't see that one down there.
We offer quite a wide range
of multi-platform services.
Currently the latest statistics are that
53% of UK homes have digital services
to receive their TV transmissions.
Whether that's on digital satellite,
which is the predominant platform,
digital cable,
and the most recent platform
which is digital terrestrial,
which is on a free view service and
has about 4 million viewers on digital
terrestrial and that was a real drive
over Christmas on set-top boxes.
It's a crowded music market.
There's 25 different music
channels in the UK alone,
9 of which are MTV.
So we have a real tough time
competing in the market.
So the interactive services
we offer are kind of a big
differentiator to our competitors.
I think it's only the Skype platform
who have their own things.
We also have three music channels
which also have interactive services.
We also use it to extend the viewing
experience so we're not just targeting
people who are sat in front of the TV,
but they can go away with their
phone or go online afterwards
after they're watching the channel
and interact with MTV that way.
So we've got various websites
for the different channels.
We've got a very advanced
interactive TV service that
lets people enter competitions,
read the latest news,
all while they're sitting
there watching the TV.
And we've got games.
There's one in the middle there,
Seymour's Turbo Couch,
which you actually play over the videos
while you're watching the channel.
And on the end there is our
Ringtones app that lets people,
while they're watching the TV,
find out about what ringtones we've
got available and they can text
straight off the screen and receive
their ringtone to their phone.
And a whole range of mobile services
which I'll go in depth with in a moment.
I think we've covered
the main technologies.
In the UK we've mainly got GSM, GPRS,
WAP, and 3G services are just
sort of starting and some
interesting stuff happening there.
Data speeds, which is a bit ridiculous,
but it shows the fact that the 3G
services are way ahead and we can
do some really fun stuff with video.
There's over 50 million
mobile subscribers in the UK,
so it's got quite high
penetration across the UK region.
There's six major network operators,
so it's quite a competitive market.
There's Orange, O2, T-Mobile,
Virgin Mobile, Vodafone,
and the newest of which is Three,
which is a dedicated 3G service provider.
Vodafone launched a 3G data card
for business users earlier on this
year and 3 launched over a year ago.
And they've now got,
the figures are probably
about a month or two old,
but around 400,000
subscribers on the 3 network.
Data usage is definitely
increasing in the UK.
Text messaging in the UK and across
Europe is really quite a mad phenomenon.
In the UK alone we've got 21
billion messages sent per month
and that just keeps increasing.
Data usage has certainly increased
after GPRS with MMS technologies
from camera phones where people
are sending their pictures around
to each other or other mobile
content such as little video clips.
We've seen a kind of little resurgence
in the use of WAP because of the
increased speed you get over GPRS.
So there's now little WAP portals that
a lot of the operators are operating.
MTV have our own sort of slimmed
down version and it's currently
estimated that only around 12%
of UK mobile users are data users
so there's room for growth there.
So we've kind of got a two-pronged
approach to mobile for MTV.
We've got everything we
do for our on-air channel.
We could do a wide range of things here.
We've got voting, chat, on-screen games,
competitions and feedback.
And I'll show you a quick video in a sec
which shows some of those services that
we use where people can actually interact
with what's happening on the screen.
I think the first one in this
video clash where people can
actually vote which video is
going to play next on the channel.
There's Matchmaker which is a
kind of interactive game where you
text your name and the person you
like and it gives you a percentage
score based on how matched you are.
It's all based on numerology
but not quite sure about that.
And it comes back with a little
statement about how much you're in
love with them or something like that.
And you also get it sent back to your
phone at the same time so you get the
instant response and something on screen.
As an example of our presenters
promoting use of a computer.
We've got a competition and there's text
drugs and rock and roll which is on MTV2
where you can text in messages and they
appear on the screen over the program.
And I'll run that now.
We've had some volume?
The M-TV has shaped music
television 20 years ago,
and now M-TV is shaping music
television of the future.
Okay, so that's just an example of a
few of the different services.
I mean, they've been really successful.
We've now rolled those out
all the way across Europe.
Matchmaker, for instance,
there's getting around three or four
thousand SMSs an hour just in the UK,
so we've been really pleased with that.
And we're just sort of extending
the Text Drugs Rock and
Roll format there into photo chat,
so you can go online to our websites,
upload your photo,
you put in your mobile number and it
stores all that information about you.
And then when you text your
message into the screen,
it'll bring a little
picture up in the corner,
and people seem to be really liking that.
We also do subscription services via SMS,
so advertisers who we
have partnered with,
if you've opted in to receive messages,
we can send out messages
on behalf of them.
We also send out mail alerts,
so when an artist that you've signed up
with comes onto TRL or one of our shows,
we'll text our audience to let
them know what's happening.
We've also got sort of mentioned a
sort of products area where we're
doing stuff that isn't directly
affecting what happens on air.
So we've got business to business deals
with most of the operators in the UK.
And if we haven't,
we're in talks with them.
So that's where we're doing video
content for various mobile portals and
providing sort of chart information.
I think we provide charts to O2,
who have a digital media
player which downloads MP3s.
We've also been doing deals with
handset manufacturers such as Motorola,
where we deliver content that
comes on the phone when you buy
it out of the shop directly.
And then we've got our
business to consumer services.
So we're selling ringtones
off our own websites,
through interactive TV and
through on-air promotions.
[Transcript missing]
So they've done really well for us.
So some of the other products here,
wallpapers.
So actually I've got an example
there of how we actually have to
format some of these sometimes for
the different layouts on the phones.
So there's a typical jackass
wallpaper and there's some
of our MTV UK presenters.
People just love to personalize
their phone with this kind of stuff
and show it off to their friends.
Now I'm going to move on to sort
of more of the video content which
is the stuff that I'm having quite
a lot of fun with at the moment.
And just a little montage of some of
the kind of content we're putting out on
two and a half networks and 3G phones.
[Transcript missing]
So, one of the main things we've been
trying to do is create a really
good user experience by putting
little packages together of content.
Reversioning some of the MTV shows,
producing specific
content for the mobile,
and it's doing really well for us.
I'll just run you through some of
the packages so you can kind of
see what kind of content we offer.
This is the MTV What's Hot package.
This is all on 3G, these ones.
It's two minutes, we do two a week.
It's kind of reviews and recommendations
of new artists that are coming out,
new singles, what's going on tour,
fashion, hot topics.
We've got the best of MTV,
which is about a minute
and a half to two minutes.
We do three of these a week and
we use a lot of stuff that's
been out from the channel,
say from the previous week.
So if there's a guest
that's been on a show,
we'll edit together a
little package with them,
either from the show itself
or after the show's gone out,
we'll do a little backstage
interview with them.
So it's kind of unique content
you can only get on the phone.
Live Lounge, which is a longer piece,
it's up to four minutes,
and we deliver around
12 of these a month.
These are all exclusive
MTV Live performances,
either from our archives,
and we've got stuff going
back years and years,
or the latest performances,
either from America,
which we've licensed over to the UK,
or from our own TRL UK shows.
We also do specials such as
the MTV Europe Music Awards,
the MTV Video Music Awards,
basically any awards that are going.
There's always something fun happening.
And probably the most updated
one is the MTV News package,
which is a two-minute package.
It goes out every day, Monday to Friday.
And that normally consists
of around three news items.
And I thought it would be interesting
to sort of just walk you through
how we produce some of this content.
So for MTV News,
the normal MTV News team goes and
produces that on behalf of us.
So they'll use the same news
format that they use on air.
So to the viewer,
it's the same kind of look and feel.
It's the same presenter.
They understand what's going on.
But we reshoot it in the studio just
after they've done the normal news.
Tighter headshot to kind
of maintain the action.
And they remove a lot of the smaller
crawls and the moving backgrounds.
It's recorded live,
and we get it delivered on a
DigiBeater to us to manipulate.
And I've got a short clip here
that just shows that process.
Now with money comes fast
cars and of course women.
Well, not if you're 14 years old
and known as Harry Potter.
Now, what do you think was Jamilia's
favourite thing about shooting her
latest video of a sea in her boy's eyes?
Being in Cuba?
Nope.
Loads of blokes she paid
to be in their schools.
We went on set to clean up the mess.
Well, just before I go,
a big happy birthday to
the delicious Kylie Blogue.
I've got your present right here.
That's it, I'll back you up with more
news directly to your mobile.
And that generally goes out
to the viewers about 6 o'clock
each day as a single package.
And the actual news item,
generally the same news package
on air goes out an hour later,
so they kind of get exclusive
to their phone first.
But with our other
packages that I showed you,
we edit all that in-house,
we do our own shooting,
we go out with DV and
shoot all our interviews.
We use a desktop Final Cut system,
which has really impressed the
business because they've suddenly gone,
"Wow, you can do all of this on that
machine and we don't have to go
into Soho and spend a fortune with
an editing house." So it's a G5,
Blackmagic 10-bit uncompressed,
we come in at the highest quality we can,
because if we want to archive this
kind of content for later use,
we want to make sure we've got it
in the highest quality possible.
And we can come in direct off DV cameras,
which means we don't have to
dub from one format to another.
We use DigiBeater and SP as the main
tape source and laying off for archiving.
I probably won't go into
this too much detail,
but you need to say we've got
to do some work to make sure the
content looks right on the phone,
so we've got to make sure that we
reframe the shots so that there's
not so much going on in the frame.
We try and avoid fast
cutting where possible,
but we have actually found with the 3G
services that the picture quality is
so good that we can do a lot of that
kind of MTV style zooming in action.
One of the biggest things we do do though
is redo any titling because normally
if it's too small it won't show up,
so instead of it being a lower
third it's the lower half
of the screen on the phones.
One of the biggest issues we've
found is the devices don't have that
much storage capacity at the moment,
so that's why we're only doing
two or three minute packages.
The sound is not great
on the phones themselves.
The speakers aren't really
designed for that kind of playback,
but if you plug in the headphones
you get pretty good audio quality.
Most people don't do that when
they're showing it to their
friends and correcting video
levels to make sure it looks good.
Okay, so this is a brief bit about
how we get it onto the phone.
All our 2.5G content we encode directly
out of Final Cut using QuickTime 3G.
As I mentioned previously,
for some of the download
options on the 2.5 phones,
we have to make sure the file
size is quite small otherwise the
viewer has to wait quite a long
time for the file to come down.
So I think we've seen a
few of these already today,
of the video rates, equivalent frames per
second and the lengths.
But T-Mobile are sort of trying
to open up that format at the
moment and they've sort of said,
"Let's try and see if we can
make a bigger file format to give
longer content." So we're playing
around with that at the moment.
I'll try and give you a quick demo,
if we can go over to that.
[Transcript missing]
So it's just weird little clips
that people seem to like to
download and show to their friends.
The actual show itself is a
little bit ruder than that,
but thankfully on the phone
we've only got a little short
space of time to show stuff,
so we cut a lot of that out.
If we can switch back to the slides.
For three in the UK,
what they've actually done is
they've appointed BBC Technologies as
a sort of gatekeeper towards
all the content providers.
So we actually currently,
we go out as an MPEG-2 format at a
really high data rate and we send
that over to them and they check
it over for us and do the encoding
and pass it off to the phones.
It's an MPEG-4 format on the
3G phones and there's a little
bit here about the differences
between the 3G and 2G content,
which I think is just basically obvious
if I show you the actual footage.
So I will now move on to a 3G example.
There's a few different phones
in the UK for 3G at the moment.
This is the sort of original one,
which is the sort of clamshell design,
quite bulky.
But this one's even bulkier.
This is the sort of more business
phone with a little touchscreen.
But the video quality on
the screen is pretty good.
So I'll try and show
you an example of this.
So that's a little clip
from the news there.
You can see the motion is quite good.
It moves along quite well.
Frame rate keeps up.
Obviously these aren't streaming
from here because I can't do that,
but back in the UK,
you've got the choice of either
downloading it to the phone
and storing it to watch later
or streaming it in real time.
And the quality comes down
at just about the same rate.
Can we switch back to the slides?
So, what have been our main findings?
Well, we found that mobile is
integral to our viewers' lives.
It's their main source of what
they get out and what they do.
Most of our viewers are quite young,
they're demanding,
and now the scary thought is some
don't even remember a time before SMS.
And the latest stats show that
25% of UK 7-10 year olds now
actually own a mobile phone.
We don't actively target under 16,
we can't under X-DIS rules, under Ofcom,
but we can't help it sometimes, you know,
they're going to text in and it's
down to their parents to make sure
they're using it in the right way.
The demographic research
has been very strange.
Three subscribers are generally
25 to 35 year old males.
They're all downloading pop music.
So they're the kind of
people who tell everyone,
"Yeah, I really like cool music."
And then they're secretly going
off and downloading a bit of
Britney Spears to chill out on.
Device constraints, we found that,
as I've mentioned before,
the sound isn't so good on the devices.
For instance, on this one,
the speaker is at the back,
so if you're looking at it,
you're not getting the
sound in your face.
So people are using their headphones,
but they generally don't.
So we're trying to make sure that
just the video quality is there
so that people can show it off.
They've got short attention spans,
so they don't like to sit there
and wait for it to download,
but even more so, the content itself has
to be quite snappy,
very visually appealing.
And thankfully that's
something we can deliver.
The other very important thing we
found is the navigation to the content.
It's all very well having this
great content on your system,
but if people can't get to it,
then they're never going to find it.
So we've got our editorial team in
place who've done a lot of work to
work out how people in one line of
text are going to understand what
this content is and therefore how
they're going to go and download it.
The status symbols of the moment,
the phones,
they're not sort of widespread as yet.
These are the two sort of
very strange looking phones,
the Nokia,
very strange fashion looking phone.
But they want content they
can show their friends,
they want up-to-date content,
and the kind of content you've
downloaded on the phone does make
a statement about who you are.
If you've got loads of Jackass
and Daddy Sanchez clips,
then you're probably going to be
kind of a bit funky and a bit crazy,
whereas if you've got a whole
load of live lounges by Queens of
the Stone Age and a whole
load of other old content,
then that kind of says
something about you as well.
We've done very well.
We're second only to football in the UK.
There was a slide earlier
that sort of showed football
and then adult entertainment,
but thankfully we're actually beating
adult entertainment in the UK,
which is quite pleasing.
The download estimates have been up.
I can't give you exact figures,
can't release those,
but the percentage each month is just
going up and up as new subscribers
come on board and the awareness
of the 3G phones is happening.
It's just been announced today,
I believe,
that Orange are launching a 3G service
towards the end of this month in the UK.
Vodafone is going to be September.
So as the main operators come on board,
it's going to become
more and more common.
And subscribers do seem willing
to pay for the extra content.
And we've seen a lot of requests
from other regions around the world
who've seen our content within
MTV and now would like to use that.
So we're trying to help them
build their 3G businesses.
The future?
Well, it's standards-based and
thankfully QuickTime is
definitely looking towards that.
And there's a good workflow
at the moment we get out with
using Final Cut and QuickTime.
The handsets are going to get better.
I mean, the biggest stumbling block seems
to be battery life at the moment.
I've had to change my phone
battery twice today when I've
been showing people video clips.
And the storage is going to
hopefully improve as well.
As I said,
the main networks seem to be deploying
towards the end of this year in the UK.
and it's going to be a big market.
That's it.
Thank you.
So we've talked a little bit
about professional mobile success,
mobile content,
and now I'd like to invite Pierre Barbau
to talk a little bit about the
success that Sprint has had with
their consumer messaging service.
So with that, Pierre.
Thank you, Aliza.
And I'm not sure if I've
ever been in a tighter spot.
I sit between MTV and I'm told there's
a party at the Apple campus tonight.
So we'll try to be brief and walk through
a few of these slides here with you.
Essentially,
we're here to share with you a little
of our learnings from picture mail and,
more importantly,
video mail as it applies to
our experiences with QuickTime.
And to, I hope at the end of the day,
look at the future of mobile marketing.
And I hope that I leave you
with the impression that
our relationship with Apple,
and particularly around
the QuickTime product,
has been very helpful to
us and to our customers.
Give you a sense of where the camera
phone has been and where it's going.
And of course here we assume
camera and in part of these,
of course, our video enabled handsets.
We got excited about what
happened last year into this year.
Going forward,
there's a lot more growth ahead and
the side of the company I come from,
we're really focused on
the personal communication,
visual communication
aspect of our business.
So this is really the path that we're
following in the coming few years.
If you look at video
messaging as a segment,
it too has a great deal of growth ahead.
We're really just
getting started in 2004,
as you can see.
We launched our service in
November of last year and
By the end of 2009,
it's estimated there will be
over 30 million users in the
United States of video messaging,
handset-based video messaging.
In that same period,
it's expected the potential market
associated with video messaging
will reach over $2 billion.
So it's really something of importance
to us and we're quite committed to it.
[Transcript missing]
This is actually a much better
improvement to my original slides,
so thanks for doing that.
Basically a timeline of
kind of where we've been.
Launched our services in August of '02,
first camera attachment
in the United States.
Arguably there were more camera
attachments launched in the
United States than perhaps
any market in the world.
I'm not quite sure what caused that,
but there seemed to have
been a lot of those.
We quickly followed with
our first integrated camera
phone in November of '02.
And most of you, again,
have seen the progression from there.
So now we are very much
into an integrated device.
Still images,
video now are becoming one and the same.
Become pretty much a standard
across our image capturing devices.
Any questions on this?
No?
[Transcript missing]
We have three models in the
market today that support video.
Some of you may have some of
these just out of curiosity.
How many of you might
have one of these models?
We have one customer, two.
Okay.
You work for the company.
That doesn't count.
I think the gee whiz here
and what really is exciting,
as Aliza and I talked
about some months ago,
is there's going to be an unprecedented
amount of personal videos taken
as a result of these devices.
I think in history,
never before will there have
been so many personal videos
captured on an electronic device,
far beyond the camcorders
or anything like that.
So it really presents quite an
opportunity and opens up new markets and
new ways that you can use these videos.
The overall experience
again has to be very tight,
very integrated.
Those of you who have the
Sprint camera phones will know,
we like to think there are some parallels
in our approach to how I think Apple does
certain things with your devices.
We really spend a lot of time
and energy to make them better as
far as the user experience goes.
Everything we do we design with
the customer in mind first.
The technology in many
instances comes second.
And of course in the United States,
unlike Europe,
the presence of the personal
computer continues to play a
dominant role in what's going on.
So if I look at the picture mail service,
primarily the still picture sharing,
the PC continues to be a, you know,
it's holding its own.
Some people thought that by now its
share of the picture messaging would
have diminished much more than it has.
I never thought that.
I really believe that
it will hold its own.
This comes with video, of course,
there are not a lot of video
phones out there to share to.
So you can just imagine the
lion's share of what's being
shared now is done to email.
So, and PC email for that matter.
So, Lisa got a phone call from us,
I don't know Lisa was
it sometime last summer,
in that time frame, as we were preparing
to launch Video Mail.
Video Mail and Picture Mail are also
off the platform by a company called
LightSurf that we work hand in hand.
They're our partner in our
design and our implementation.
And as we were designing
and building the product,
our engineering teams were
faced with a challenge.
The challenge was, you know,
here we had MPEG-4 files, you know,
what clients,
what PC-based client or software
should we use and recommend to
customers to support the ability
to receive and view the videos.
And the decision was made
really based on the product.
And the decision was made really
based on the quality and the,
I would also say,
the willingness of Apple to
work with us to really,
again, go the extra step to make the user
experience of making it possible
to download the software better,
easier.
And in turn, today when you receive a
video from Sprint Video Mail,
what we do is we'll sniff
out and find out if,
we'll determine if you do or
don't have QuickTime on your PC.
And that's the next thing
you see automatically,
the recommendation of you,
we recommend you download
this particular software.
Lisa tells me that it's
a successful engagement,
not knowing exactly how successful it is.
It's something that's been good
for Apple as it has been for us.
Again, going forward,
what we're trying to really
achieve is create a mass market.
And that's what we're trying to do.
We're trying to create a mass
market for these devices,
for these applications.
You're going to start seeing
us do more with the technology,
again,
providing customers what they want,
better quality, longer videos.
You're going to see us also drive
down the prices of the handsets,
which will in turn make it possible
for more folks to get involved.
And as you know,
there are some improvements
coming to the wide area networks,
which will increase
the bandwidth as well.
We're also corner of our eye,
we're looking at the PC and
how it is directly going to
play with the device as well.
You talked about memory.
I think a lot of those things are going
to get addressed in the near future.
So we're really very much in
tune with trying to bring,
again, at the end of the day,
a better user experience
and a better product.
That is it.
And that was yours, actually.